# Argon

Argon is a workflow engine for Rails, built around a state machine. It relies on a `state` propery on a model to manage workflow around state transitions.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'argon'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install argon

## Usage

The `Maxim` module provides a `state_machine` class method which expects the following args (as demonstrated by the example below).

```ruby
  class Report
    include Argon

    def on_cancel
      # This is called from inside the lock, after the edge transitions. If an exception is thrown here, the entire transition is rolled back
    end

    def after_cancel
      # This is called after a successful transition
    end

    state_machine state: {
      states: {
        draft:     0,
        submitted: 1,
        approved:  2,
        rejected:  3,
        cancelled: 4,
      },
      events: [
        :cancel,
      ],
      edges: [
        { from: :draft,     to: :submitted, action: :submit,           callbacks: {on: false, after: false}                       },
        { from: :draft,     to: :cancelled, action: :cancel_draft,     callbacks: {on: false, after: false}, on_events: [:cancel] },
        { from: :submitted, to: :cancelled, action: :cancel_submitted, callbacks: {on: false, after: false}, on_events: [:cancel] },
      ],
      on_successful_transition: ->(from:, to:) { /* Do something here */ },
      on_failed_transition:     ->(from:, to:) { /* Do something else */ },
    }
  end
```

`Report#state` will now return one of `:draft`, `:submitted`, `:approved`, `:rejected` or `:cancelled`. There is no method to set the state directly, and it is recommended to set the numberical value of the initial state (e.g. `0` here for `:draft`) as the default value of the `state` column for the `reports` table, which should be an integer column.

This will generate the following methods for the states:

* `Report.draft`, `Report.submitted`, `Report.approved`, `Report.rejected`, and `Report.cancelled` : These are scopes similar to the ones generated by Rails enum
* `Report#draft?`, `Report#submitted?`, `Report#approved?`, `Report#rejected?`, and `Report#cancelled?` : These are query methods similar to the ones generated by Rails enum

The following methods are generated from the edges:

* `Report#submit!` : This will move the state to `submitted` if the object was in the `draft` state. The state change is done inside a lock (`ActiveRecord::Locking::Pessimistic#with_lock`). If `callbacks.in` was true, then `Report#on_submit` is called from within the lock. If `callbacks.post` was true, then `Report#after_submit` will be called, after the lock is released. Note that if enabled, the callbacks have to be defined before `state_machine` is called, or an exception will be raised.
* `Report#can_submit?` : This will return `true` if the object was in the `draft` state.

  (similar methods are created for `cancel_draft` and `cancel_submitted`)

The following method will be generated for the event:

* `Report#cancel!` : This will check `can_cancel_draft?`, and if true, will call `cancel_draft!`. Else, it will try `can_cancel_submitted?`, and call `cancel_submitted!` if true, and so on. Note that for event methods, both callbacks are mandatory (i.e. here, both `on_cancel` and `after_cancel` must be defined before `state_machine` is called).

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/sparkymat/argon. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Argon project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/sparkymat/argon/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
